blue whales are the largest animals that
have ever roamed the planet there are at
least two times as big as the biggest
dinosaurs
did big the length of a basketball court
and as heavy as 40 African elephants
that's not enough to make you model
here's something that will they've grown
to this enormous size by feeling is
cluesive Lee on tiny shrimp-like
creatures called krill there are no
bigger than your little finger in many
ways the sheer size crew seems to have
driven the evolution of the blue whale
sea krill are so small but I found in
dense patches for increased efficiency
blue whales have evolved to use a
feeding strategy called the lunge
feeding basically the whale accelerates
towards prey patch and opens its mouth
wide to increase the capacity its mouth
expands the special accordion-like
blubber layer that extends from its
snout to its belly button enables the
whale to engulf large quantities of prey
Laden water
with each giant gulp the whale takes in
125 percent of its body weight in water
and krill the whale must then expel the
water while retaining the yummy krill to
do this it uses its baleen the comb like
structure made out of the same stuff our
nails and hair are made of and its
tongue it's pretty crazy that the blue
whale's heart is as big as a small car a
child could crawl through its arteries
its tongue weighs as much as an elephant
but its esophagus is so small the whale
could choke on a loaf of bread these
whales are really not designed to feed
on anything larger than krill it's
estimated that blue whales eat four tons
of krill per day because of the
incredible design each dive provides the
blue whale with 90 times as much energy
as is used every mouthful of krill
provides almost 480 thousand calories
the same amount you get from eating
1,900 hamburgers but why are blue whales
so big blue whales are considerably
larger than the largest living land
animal the elephant the heavy an animal
is the great its relative surface area
as weight increases there's a point at
which the legs of that animal would
simply collapse that explains why
elephants don't stand on the delicate
legs of a horse they need legs shaped
like stout pedestals to hold their
bodies up against gravity in water the
situation is quite different buoyancy
contracts the gravitational pull on the
body and that great bulk is therefore
partially supported by the water so the
ocean is a great place for species that
want to go bigger the other secret to
their size is their diet by evolving
such a huge mouth the whales have
specialized to catch enormous quantities
of highly abundant and nutritious prey
which provides the energy
to grow so big but now maybe you're
wondering why blue whales aren't any
bigger
after all the ocean sounds like Nirvana
for any growing beasts
well while lunch feeling may have
allowed blue whales to become the
biggest animal to have ever roamed the
planet by enabling them to feed
efficiently in dense prey patches it
isn't cost-free scientists compared all
the costs involved with lunge feeding to
the energy gained from the krill they
eat what they found was that when the
whales body increases in size the energy
our body demands Rises faster than the
extra energy they get from their food
feeding whales need 15 times energy
required to remain still and five times
more energy than used when swimming
calculations show that the largest a
large feeder can grow is 33 metres
pretty much blue whale size turns out
blue whales have a lot to thank cro4
need evolutionary adaptations that would
not have been possible if Chloe not so
small it's incredible that these tiny
creatures have allowed blue whales to
really push the limits of size on our
planet makes you wonder if that all the
dish you are what you eat really desert
I in blue whale world
you